# anthem-benchmarks
A set of ATP benchmarks generated by my fork of [Anthem](https://github.com/ZachJHansen/zanthem-next/tree/zanthem2).
Please see `summary.xlsx` for an overview.

## Problems
Every problem is contained in a directory with a README.md, which describes
- problem name and origin,
- an example `anthem` command for verifying the problem,
- additional information about branch name, experimental features, etc.

Each problem directory also contains the associated source files (logic programs, user guides, etc.).

## Classical Reasoning
If you want to test a classical first-order theorem prover on these problems, visit the `classical` directory. 
Each directory contains the TPTP files associated with a particular `anthem` command (found in the README.md of each directory).
Equivalence breaking was disabled universally, but simplified and unsimplified problem variants were generated.
Problem files were all generated without proof outlines.

## Intuitionistic Reasoning
If you want to test an intuitionistic theorem prover, visit the `intuitionistic` directory.
Problems without arithmetic were transformed via an experimental `shorthand` translation to produce FOF formulas.
The remaining problems were transformed via `tau-star` and produce TFF formulas with the customary `anthem` preamble axiomatizing standard interpretations.

## The Summary Document
Problems are labeled according to their estimated difficulty based on preliminary experiments with `vampire` invoked with 4 cores, and a time limit T given for each conjecture (not the entire problem).

- Level 0 problems should be solvable by an ATP with T=1 second, without a proof outline.
- Level 1 problems should be solvable by an ATP with T=1 minute, without a proof outline.
- Level 2 problems should be solvable by an ATP with T=10 minutes without a proof outline.
- Level 3 problems should be solvable by an ATP with T=1 minute when tested with the provided proof outline.
- Level 4 problems should be solvable by an ATP with T=10 minutes when tested with the provided proof outline.
- Level 5 problems timed out (T=10 minutes) even with the provided proof outline.

Some problems make multiple appearances across the difficulty levels, depending on the command used to generate the problems. For instance, variants of the `primes` problem are much easier for `vampire` when `anthem`'s custom simplifications are used.


## Automated Benchmarking
The `benchmark.py` file documents how I estimated problem difficulty with preliminary benchmarking.
The `populate.py` file documents how I generated the TPTP problem files for every reasoning task.
